Hi guys.
In this lab we're going to go into the API Gateway console create a really simple API and I just want
to use it as a chance to show you through the console and teach you a little bit more about API Gateway
before we then go on to actually create a few more solutions.
So go into the services menu and just scroll down to networking and content delivery you'll find API
Gateway here.
And if you haven't used it before you're going to get this splash screen.
And if you just click get started it actually pops up and says it's going to pre populate the import
form of a pet store API which uses swagger 2.0.
We can click okay and let's just have a quick look free what we've got here.
So first off we've got the type of API we want to deploy so even arrest based or a web socket.
And if we choose risk based we get a couple of options to either create a new API we can import from
swagger or open API three so those were a couple of standards that you can use to define your API as
an API Gateway is compatible with them so you can import and you can also export to these formats or
you can use an example API which is already pretty populated for us so we're going to just choose this
example API if you then scroll down and we're just going straight past the code you don't need to know
too much about this for now the endpoint type so this is what we talked about in the last lesson there's
regional edge optimized and private.
And if you remember the differences the regional API is it deployed in the region.
The Edge optimized API uses cloudfront.
That's the globally distributed content delivery network, and then the private API is for when you only
want to access your API from within your VPC from your own private IP ranges.
So we can leave that as regional and click import
and we're now in our first API.
So this is called the pet store API.
And on the left here you can see that we have some different categories of settings and in the middle
pane here you can see some of the HTTP methods that are being created.
So normally you'd go in and you can sort of create a method here and you can choose one of these different
HTTP methods.
And this has been created for us.
So we've already got the get, post and some options as well.
And you can actually go into these and click test and then for instance if you just click test down
here it starts populating some information.
So this is what's been this this is what's being provided in the response body here and we've got dog,
cat, and fish with different prices associated with them
you could then for instance type type equals dog and click test and then it's just going to change the
response
with post you can also then go and click test and you can put some information in and into the request
body and the next level is stages.
So if you click actions you deploy an API and when you deploy your API you then select a stage.
So for instance you can choose to create your own stage here and call it test and you can create multiple
stages and you can use this for your product delivery lifecycle.
We just click deploy we then get some options that are associated with our stage.
So you can see you can enable a cache you can choose the capacity, you can choose to encrypt the cache
you can specify the time to live and the authorization it's just to select that you then have throttling
this sometimes comes up on the exam. Your account level throttling right is 10000 requests per second
with a burst of 5000.
Now you can see that this stage actually has 10000 requests per second.
So if you want to limit each of your APIs, you have to go in and edit this manually so that you don't
exceed or reach your account threshold just through one API you can then choose to associate with a
web ACL using the Web Application Firewall and you can choose client certificates as well in the logs
and tracing you can choose to enable cloudwatch logs and by default you get error or info.
Alternatively you could then go down and enable access logging here and this is where you can do custom
access logging so you can choose your own cloudwatch group.
You can also choose detailed cloudWatch metrics and if you hover over the information icon you can
see a little bit of information about the metrics that are going to be logged and also how you're going
to be charged.
You can also enable x-ray tracing and you can select variables for your stage choose the SDK export
to swagger or open API three and also these other options as well as you can export with the gateway
extensions.
The API Gateway extensions and JSON or YAML and you can export swagger plus postman extension so lots
of options there is a bit of history and then a canary.
So you can create a canary and what this means is you can direct a certain percentage of your API requests
to the canary.
So let's say the stage is a test stage and you want to send 10 percent your traffic to it and then you
can see you know what the results are.
Do your testing and you can even add variables just for that particular canary.
So that's stages.
Then you got authorizers and you can create a new authorizer and the options are lambda or coordinator.
Now what happens is for instance if you're using the lambda authorization is when a client makes a request
to one of your API methods, API Gateway calls the lambda authorize of which takes the caller's identity
as the input and then returns and IAM policy as output and then a couple of things that might be worth
showing you here are the dashboard which is where you can see some information on your API calls and
the latency associated with them and the usage plans.
You can create a plan to meet your API usage enabling throttling and quota limits on API keys there's
then the API case themselves here so you can create your API keys and you can create your custom domain
name entries here.
So for instance we could put in dctlabs.com which we've used in this course before and there are
no certificates for HTTP but if we go to Web socket we can see the certificate that we used earlier
in the course.
You can also generate client certificates and if you do this you can then copy the key information to
the clipboard and then you can use that with your backend services to verify that all requests that
reach them come actually from API Gateway I could just delete this one for now under VPC links you can
configure access to your VPC and you do so through a network load balancer.
So we don't actually have one at the moment.
If you have a network load balancer you can use that as your integration endpoint.
So that's it for this lab it was just a quick overview of some of the console.
There's lots and lots here we haven't covered everything.
You don't really need to know at all for the yet for the solutions architects associate exam you do
really need to understand things like API stages and the methods that are used and also you
need to understand some of the services the API Gateway typically integrates with.
You also need to know client certificates being a way to ensure that requests to your backend come from
API gateway so that's something that can definitely pop up in an exam question.
For now we can go in and delete this API and what we need to do is just type the name of the API which
in this case is pet store and delete the API and it's as simple as that in the next lab.
We're going to build a Hello World API that has lambda proxy integration.